welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
business
[Music]
hi everyone and welcome back to a fresh
episode of sam's business growth show
excited to be joined by alex boyd today
alex is the founder and ceo
over at revenue zen where he works with
growing companies to help them scale
their content marketing
and demand generation ax was born and
raised in san francisco
currently held from portland oregon and
revenue then worked with startups
all over the country alex a very warm
welcome my friend
welcome to the show how you doing i'm
great thanks for having me on man
no worries dude so looking forward to
having a chat today and um as the title
says
we're going to take you to focus on how
to nail
inbound marketing as a startup which i'm
sure is going to be a spicy and
interesting topic for anyone that's
that's recently started their own
business and is
looking to up their brand visibility the
inbound leads inquiries demo requests
whatever it may be
that they want to get in for the new
business side of things or anyone
perhaps thinking of starting their own
business
um but before we get to that interesting
topic uh myself and the audience
uh alex would love to know a bit more
about yourself so perhaps you could
share with us a bit of your background
um and perhaps a few of the companies
that you worked at and maybe a couple
lessons learned along the way in either
business
sales or marketing up to you creating
your own company
revenues then yeah absolutely
um well i got into sales purely
accidentally
when i graduated college with a moral
philosophy degree
i applied to the quantitative trading
desks at hedge funds
not which wanted me and i realized that
i needed to try something else so
applying to the research desk of a
brokerage firm they had a sales position
open
and you know i was early 20s and needed
a job and so
sure why not right let's try it out
terrified kicking and screaming
um and a friend of mine last night made
the comment that um you know i'm not a
natural
like schmoozer type of salesperson um
sort of scienced it out along the way
and so in my early sales jobs
um i sort of developed more of the the
structure of it
versus relying on um what some people
just
some people you seem like they seem like
a natural sales person right whereas
from a bit more of a systems mindset um
so when i took over a team and started
leading sales in sdr and outbound and
um it sort of made a bit easier to catch
on that way
um and so when i started revenues and
with my co-founder who focuses on more
of our marketing practice
um we joined forces that we both had our
systems mindsets for
sales for marketing um she's published
several sci-fi novels
um and was a journalist and content
marketer for a long time
still is um and you know today i come
from
just that sales background but also um
still more of the systems mindset of
you know where numbers how are your
processes how does it all tie together
um and does it matter i think a lot of
um people in outbound positions
haven't held a bag um whereas that was
most of what my career was spent
on so um everything we do is focused
around
would it help people like us with no vc
money
make it work right because this what we
do for ourselves is
our money it's my rent my groceries it's
gotta work
and it has um so there's no you know
investor playground to play with nothing
against venture-backed companies but um
the stuff we do is all focused on it has
to work
um and so that's we are today um
yeah types of companies you work with
there's you know look of the case that
is in the website there's proud perfect
is uh you know series a way regression
testing company that
needs to talk to more heads of venge um
and go get over skepticism and they use
content they use outbound to do that
um fundraise is a company with
a really wonderful human of a ceo
who had a great background in
non-profits ran nonprofits
um now has technology that sells to them
we've helped him grow his brand on
linkedin as well as outbound
um even consultancies you know like
customer success consultants like
success hacker
um aaron's a good friend of mine um
you've just
shipped revenue at multiples of what
they've paid us on outbound and also on
in seo
um so our kind of focus is the
early stage folks i kind of want to say
underdogs
but um you know for some reason that's
just what we like
awesome man okay so yeah startups are
the one
um and before we talk about perhaps why
you started your own business
um you mentioned that you take more of a
tactical more of a structured process
rather than being a natural salesperson
which i'm just just the same quite an
introvert i'm i'm definitely suited to
inside sales rather than face to face
um definitely what you call the kind of
traditional when you think of salesman
slick person in a suit
always going always going out on the
field in their fancy car and kind of
closing deals and
pressuring people into sales so i'm like
much like you probably i'm quite the
opposite to that
and prefer to have a kind of rigid
process that i follow
um in terms of how i help clients and
customers and things like that with the
service we do
cool um yeah so before we kind of jump
into
why you started your own business there
any any lessons that you learned yeah
previous as
previous businesses or previous
companies before you started that might
be of value to our audience
be it in marketing or be it a tip in
sales or business in general
that might be worth us discussing
um i think the one of the main things
that crops up often that
um when i talk with other entrepreneurs
and founder friends it's a little
bit tangential to sales and marketing
and revenue but um
it's finance having a damn good
financial plan
um and when i came from indonero at my
last company where i led sales
we sold accounting attacks and software
for
bookkeeping forecasting planets type of
stuff um
and so the moment i started revenue zen
um the first thing i did was set up a
damn good google sheet with all my lines
projections
where clients that we were going to
close revenue mrr how it was going to
translate to money in the bank how are
we going to invest that back
and it's just made decision making so
easy
and if there's one less thing as a
founder that you have to worry about
which is
trying to go back and um redo that stuff
when you need to make a decision
to ask yourself can i hire this person
do i have capacity for this deal
whatever it is um not having to think
about those questions
actually has helped me simplify my sales
process a lot because
knowing my numbers means i can
confidently say that
i'm at the limit of my discounting
potential when we can and can't deliver
on something
so yeah don't neglect the the back
office make sure it runs smooth and the
front office will feel
uh much easier as a result that's my
that's my non-sales sort of sales tip
um brilliant tip i mean
finance is key and knowing all your
outgoings or your staff payments or your
outsourced payments
um where you are on your your own
figures sales figures all this kind of
stuff
is is going to help you make informed
decisions right so it's a crucial part
of the
of crucial piece of the puzzle when it
comes to business yes it is
cool man so let's talk a bit about your
business give us um
a bit of a background in terms of why
you decided to
go out on your own when the light and
bulb moment was that you thought yeah
i'm going to start something here and
did you mention you had a co-founder as
well that helped you make it happen
yeah um so we have three partners today
um okay
uh one of the original partners is is
consulting now um
independently um and so
what happened originally was um
i was at my last company for about maybe
like a year and a half in the director
of sales role
um and i we'd hit the point where um
i just i wanted to really build my own
culture from the start and it wasn't
really about like i have this amazing
product
i have to create and sell um i was not
an inventor type i was an
operator through and through um and by
that i mean i
sat at my i sat at my desk i had my team
of 10 hdrs and 1080s
and um i had my dashboard that
you know as you mentioned finance right
um it pulled in everything from
salesforce needed to know
pulled up my forecast my cost numbers
and i sat there and people would bring
their laptop around and show me their
their computer with an email that they
had to write to a prospect to try and
negotiate the deal to come in
i would just sort of jockey coach help
answer questions and like
sort of be reactive um which was fine
and eventually it was like whenever i
wanted to make proactive changes
when i would hit a wall i would get
frustrated because
um as as good as i thought i was selling
internally
upward wasn't perfect um
and i realized the only way to really
build something from from scratch
in your own vision is to literally do
that you have to go and leave and do
that
so you know the opportunity came along
and
um a friend of mine said if you ever you
know
um can help us with our sales efforts
we're happy to you know
consult with you um and then they came
on they actually recently got acquired
that first client
um and uh then the second one and so on
and just became um
it eventually was you know a little bit
more than my bills need needed to pay
and so i stopped
dipping into savings and started
climbing upward and that was like month
three or so
month three was the the way of getting
into this um
awesome okay that's that's great man so
in terms of um
this might lead on to the main focus of
the show which is nailing inbound
marketing as
a startup so perhaps you could share
with us
some of the ways some of the strategies
that you're actually able to grow your
own business how you're able to start
bringing on staff
and increase revenue increase turnover
it might lead on to what we're going to
discuss and add value to the audience as
well
um perhaps you've talked this through
some of those channels that you tapped
into
that helped your beers grow and why they
they were kind of vital channels to your
growth
yeah that's a big one um
two things stand out one in a
totally failed side project business
years before um
my co-founder and chief revenue officer
at the time
um who was the co-founder of that side
project i remember him saying clear his
day when i was
you know a wee early 20th sales rep who
had no idea about this stuff
i remember him saying guys we just got a
blog for about a year and you're not
going to see it happen
and then you're going to see traffic
happen and that's how seo works
and that's as about as advanced as i got
at the time as like you know 24 years
old trying to make a
like a fx trading business happen um
and it worked like what he said came
true i had no idea why i couldn't
quantify it but it worked
and so i had that in my head um so by
month
three when my co-founder and our chief
market officer joins
we've already got blogs up and she's
like okay like you get some of this
stuff that's cool
um another thing that stands out is the
first
client that was really sort of a marquee
client for us and paid us you know a
couple hundred thousand in the first
year
we really delivered for them and they
got
amazing roi from us i remember the first
thing that
they said in the intro email and um
he wrote and said hey alex i know it's
been a couple years since we talked
i saw your post on linkedin and we
needed help scaling sales thought we
could chat
and i remember that because and i didn't
really realize it at the time
um but what i was doing was social
selling i was talking in public
and people who just sort of tangentially
knew me who happened to have a need
thought of me at the time when their
need was um acute
and so i didn't know i was doing inbound
marketing
but then as amanda came on i was like no
no this is how internet marketing works
um and she started to lead that practice
i started to learn it too so i was no
longer this one trick pony of
we closed deals we do outbound but now i
realize that um
the sdr team we built at the last
company was
a crutch for a lack of proper marketing
support
and brand marketing um and it occurred
to me that
outbound is just a form of marketing but
it's a relatively inefficient one
sometimes it depends
on a number of things but um i realized
it was doing both and so
um i started to really rethink of myself
as more of a marketer than a salesperson
and that was a big change um and it
didn't actually mean i
i learned too much in the way of new
skills it was sort of just
what i was already doing but doing it
with more refinement um and edge and
structure
and obviously learning from my my
wonderful team who knows
um a ton more about that than i do um
so those are the couple things that
stand out early was it was
somebody saw my linkedin post toy met at
a party
years earlier um in san francisco
um and i knew to start producing content
from the start
everywhere i could those are the two
things that caused us to
never have a losing month and grow our
bottom line
over 100 a year the last three years
brilliant no that's that's great man so
it sounds like you pretty much got into
inbound marketing by accident
and uh i love that love that
first thing you mentioned where you said
um yeah you put a blog about a year
later you'll start getting loads of
traffic and then you'll probably get
some leads
yeah almost how seo works a little bit
more to it than that but
just a bad a great definition
nonetheless
okay cool so um is that is that pretty
much how you scaled your own business
just producing a lot of content
and getting it all inbound was it been a
mix of outbound activities as well
we've done precious little outbound um
uh
what my former cro did a little bit of
outbound i think he said maybe a
thousand
cold emails total um i have sent
you know a decent amount of like
cold-ish linkedin requests um
because people who you know engage in my
content people who i
i seem to know through somebody else
i'll send them a note people who
you know are like um appear to a company
we've worked with i'll send them a note
and mention that i'll do stuff like that
um but today
if i look at my cash collected by source
numbers about four percent of our
revenue or a little bit less
is from outbound interesting
about half us from word of mouth and
referrals about you know a third ish is
from
either my linkedin post or a combination
of links and posts on our website
and the rest is purely seo sourced um
that's how our revenue breaks down
that's not
just deals that's actual cash from the
bank by um ltv measured in salesforce
and accounting invoices awesome dude
good stuff so let's let's get to the
topic at hand
so we want to we want to give as much
value for people tuning in that are
perhaps thinking of starting their own
company or started their income and
business recently
so let's let's pretend for example we're
b2b of course we're selling to
businesses
and maybe we offer some kind of online
training
or maybe we offer some kind of software
as a service um
offering and we're not too sure about
how to go to market
we've heard of inbound marketing um
or perhaps let's let's keep it as we
offer online training as covid's
recently
hit if we're a software service company
we might know more about email marketing
so let's keep it to a we're soft
we've moved our online training we've
moved our training that's traditionally
face-to-face to online
uh perhaps we're a shooter business or
something like that i mean we need a
plan to go to market
we want to start getting inbound leads
because we don't like cold calling
um so what what is the plan um it's what
should we what should be the foundation
of our plan what should be some of the
long-term strategies some of the
short-term strategies and some of them
perhaps medium-term strategies that we
should look at
to start getting things flowing and
perhaps we could talk about as well
to put put a bit more on the plate some
of the things that we can do that are
going to be
free that we can do internally and then
some of the things we should perhaps
think about paying either a freelancer
or an outside agency
yeah big one i know it is it's a good
one
um and so then the convenient thing
about being in my position
is when you say that naturally in my
brain like the spreadsheet unfolds if
like do this now and you'll see this
later and then this now for a short term
path and
so we gotta lay all that stuff out and
then
prioritize budget who does what all that
stuff so um
uh let's start with the most basic the
customer who buys this training
um is it um vps of dni
at um corporations universities is it
plant managers at manufacturing um
floors is it other entrepreneurs and
founders
um so who buys it and then where do they
hang out that's the biggest thing
one of the nice things is everybody
google searches stuff so seo is
almost always a good idea for things
like that if your market is
big enough in terms of the amount of
customers you sell to
and when i say big enough i mean you
know if it's small
people start companies and they say look
there's really these 500 accounts we
have to sell to and that's kind of it
if that is your game you're going to
know you have a small market because
you've you've done the research and
you're like this is my niche
it's very tight then don't really bother
with seo right
almost everybody else should invest some
into it
but it's not going to take effect
overnight typically so
that's more of a long-term thing and at
the most basic what that is is you
figure out what people are asking and
searching for
and you answer the damn questions with
content and you produce it online
there's way more to it than that that's
the basic part of it it's like what is
the most burning questions
particularly are there questions i can
answer that
aren't as competitive for meaning other
people aren't vying for that quite so
much
but i know a lot about it if you're a
training company you know a lot about
that right you have your own topic
your own niche within the topic and you
can you can literally look at
the versions of the questions people
search for that have to do with what you
know
just blog about that if you hire an
agency they'll help you do it
better and more effectively but you're
going to help yourself a lot more by
starting something
um so that's the first thing and it'll
pay off in kind of a medium term
depending on how good you are at it how
much you do
so on and so forth um and then there's
the
uh a little bit sort of medium to short
ish term depending on how good your
network is which is usually linkedin
now if your market is um on linkedin
meaning they're not in the field they
tend to use it more actively
and if you're not sure if your market
uses linkedin then
go to or ask a friend who has linkedin
sales navigator
put in the function or industry that you
sell to look at the top right and look
at the percent of people who've posted
in the last 30 days
versus the total that's the quickest way
to get a general gist of it
um for example uh non-profit people
executives tend to post roughly nine
percent of them have posted in the last
30 days
in tech it's about 17 in um
like physical operations roles it's
about five percent
manufacturing right so you can to get a
sense of how active has been market on
linkedin
anybody can build a niche but it's
easier to build one than a following
if your market is active and if you have
a good reputation if you've done this
stuff before
in your jobs it's much easier to build a
brand people know you
um if you are very young and haven't
done it before
you're going to have to work pretty hard
and parley on the successes you get as
an entrepreneur
versus me stepping into this i'm i'm a
young man but
i had done it once i didn't do narrow so
you know i could set it i say i built
that team now i'm going to do it for
people like you
and then i just parlayed that into more
successes so
on that note alex so everyone everyone
that comes on the show not everyone but
most people that come on the show
uh are keen linkedin users as we tend to
talk to b2b
business people professionals sales
professionals marketers and so on
um have you got any
tips or strategies that have helped you
because you said quite a lot of your
business has come from linkedin
and that's how some of your earlier
inquiries through people that you've
networked before
or you knew in real life and then they
were seeing your content and then
thinking of alex looks like a trusted
guy he seems to know what he's talking
about i'm gonna reach out to him and
talk about this project have you got any
tips or tricks for anyone who's thinking
i'm not really sure if linkedin's
working
not really sure what type of content i
should be putting on here um that might
help them out
and might give them a few more ideas to
get creative to actually have daily
content and to start
over time getting inquiries from what
they're going out yeah
uh daily is quite the frequency i i've
never
posted daily that's that's good though
if you can post daily great that's gonna
take a lot of work um
i've posted once a week for the past
three years or so
um i'm trying to up it twice a week
maybe a bit more but um
the key is to apply
a no test of whether it's
actually helpful
most people go on linkedin and they
share articles
they share blogs and then i ask them
invariably would you click on that do
you care about that stuff and then they
say no
so why do you do it they say well that's
what i thought you're supposed to do
don't do anything
you think you're supposed to do that you
don't actually find helpful yourself
um and it really is that critical
thinking
rigor test of do you honestly believe
and and can you defend that what you're
posting is helpful
um if you apply that test and then your
heart of hearts
you say no then it's not going to work
it's not going to give you leads
nobody has ever gotten a lead that i
have ever met
from sharing a blog post never i've
never heard of it
it just doesn't happen maybe the
marketing team got an extra click which
got them into the funnel
but it didn't help you the founder or
sales person get a lead
i'm not saying don't share blogs if you
um benefit from the
blog's traffic and thus you working at
the company and getting that lead
then fair enough but if you are a sales
rep who
may not see the results of that blog
don't share the blog
your marketing team will tell you to but
it and that's fine if you have to
but it won't help you what will help you
is things that your prospects would find
genuinely helpful
and this is the tough part is what are
you then post genuinely helpful
well there are some questions you can
ask yourself to figure that out
um if you're a trainer going back to the
example
what are the most common questions they
bring to you what are the biggest topics
in the training that the training covers
can you answer some of those with
different angles
without just posting your whole training
but can you answer some of those
questions can you tell anecdotes and
stories about how somebody
who brought your training company on
became better
can you talk about the way you approach
business and life and that ways that are
interesting
um and really this is just posting text
maybe video and audio but just post text
don't post anybody else's text
post your text if you wrote the blog
that's sort of fine
but generally just write stuff that you
um
find valuable um the two ways that
people typically fall down here are
they have psychological hang-ups that
they don't believe what they
know to be is valuable to be liable to
others they don't think people will find
it valuable
um or two they don't actually know
anything value which is the worst
scenario in which they just sort of
they just sell a product and they don't
they haven't taken the time to
dive into why it matters they don't have
the product knowledge required to
and i say product knowledge it could be
subject matter expertise if you're
consultant whatever that is
um so assuming you do know things that
are
helpful to others you have to have the
confidence to start
sharing them and then you can get into
refinement of
how do you tell stories how do you write
good copy how do you write a good hook
but
really it's just um are you sharing
valuable things you do not need more
than that you apply that one critical
thinking test
and and you will be fine if you do well
with it um
you do not need an agency we do that as
an agency but you don't need an agency
most people who build good brands do it
without an agency
um it's just hard to it's hard to
manufacture that whole
buzz on linkedin in less time unless you
have help with it
um but the question is then do you need
help with
coming up with good ideas well you gotta
go back to the drawing board you gotta
have good ideas
um you need help with writing those
ideas down and that's fair yeah
people can help you write it down how
about formatting editing video
adding captions imagery uh help with
content countering well that's fine
that's just marketing help
you know don't begrudge anybody getting
that but you need you the founder the
person building a brand
need to have good ideas if you don't
have good ideas i cannot help you i
cannot help you be interesting that's
what i tell our clients is
i can't give you good things to write i
will not make up stuff for you
alex this is great mate um so yeah i
love that what you said just now apply a
non-bullshit test
to see if your content is helpful or not
so
in terms of you mentioned thinking about
answering questions your prospective
customers have might have telling
stories um
and kind of not not posting blogs but
thinking about how you can make
your service interesting and helpful to
your audience
so it's one i mean one way that just
come to mind as to myself is if you're
having conversations with clients or
prospective clients and they
they start asking questions should we
then make a note of these questions and
then use these
linkedin posts because we know that
these are actually things on people's
minds and then put those answers there
yeah i'll give you an example right um
one thing on my idea board
is my idea board is just a slack channel
where i post like
ideas that came up from conversations
and so i was having a call with somebody
who
they showed me their copy for an
outbound strategy and i was like this is
this is
terrifyingly bad like you're i don't
understand what you do
i don't think you understand what you do
and you're using so much jargon that no
one's gonna gonna get it
um and they said well how do i change it
i said what is the cocktail party
explanation
how would you explain what you do to
somebody who's not in the industry
if you were not trying to be a business
person how would you
how would you explain it um and then
they just thought of them and they just
spat out a normal sounding
definition of what they do um you know
we help with
you know end to end uh payments
integration solutions what the
what is that yeah yeah we actually do
and so
if you sometimes i just get i get nearly
angry with people like
you are not explaining what you do and
so this is an idea i haven't so i
thought well okay
i say this all the time i'm constantly
looking at bad copy where people don't
know
um how to just speak their mind so why
don't i write that i'm gonna write a
post about you know
what is a cocktail party explanation how
do you arrive at one why is it helpful
and why will it help you convert better
um so i just i just it's an it's an
act of reflection and listening and if
you're not listening for post ideas they
won't come up once you start listening
for them
in your own life and consulting and work
with clients you'll start to think of
them so
you just have to start thinking this
should be a post
um and it's really just did you teach
somebody something are you saying
certain things often
um there's nothing fancy to it it's just
the human nature of it
what do people most commonly want to
know and what do you um
what do you teach them that they
typically find most helpful
this is brilliant and should we put a
call to action on the post itself
or should we should we have some kind of
hook or should we just
kind of do it on the basis that the post
or the content is giving pure value
and if someone wants to come through to
us they'll click for our profile and if
they want to reach out they will
i almost never put call to actions in
mine um
some of the people i know that make the
most money from linkedin don't either
um but that not to say that there are
people who do i'm sure there are
definitely people
that i just don't know as well that put
call to actions and make money from
linkedin
um i personally don't but i it's one of
the things where like
there's no real science to it you'll
just seem different so when you put a
call to action on your post you will
seem like somebody who puts calls to
actions on their post
which is fine it's just it's a bit more
um you can craft
exactly the brand impression you want to
convey by not having a call to action
i portray myself i think accurately as
somebody who does not need
anybody's business and i'm not here to
sell by putting a call to action you
you say that you are here to sell that's
okay just know that that's what you're
doing
um it should work for your market
it should work for you it should it
should fall in line with the rest of
your sales process
it should be something you're
comfortable with as a personal brand so
on and so forth
it's not to say don't do it just say
know what you're doing um
so um yeah that's my take on most like
linkedin tactics is
it just has to fit with the rest of your
process and it has to convert
makes sense man okay well we've talked
about laying down
who your actual ideal customer is
understanding where they hang out so
obviously if they're if they're not
gonna be on linkedin probably not much
point in
posting a load of content on linkedin if
no one's ever gonna see it and that your
audience isn't actually active there
um we've talked about how to craft kind
of
linkedin posts that make sense and how
to come up with the ideas and how to
structure them
and also we mentioned seo that i missed
out as a kind of long-term strategy
and to gain new business to gain
traction to gain brand visibility
traffic to your website and obviously
inbound inquiries or leads
um what else is there to it alex what
have we not yet covered
um one of the most common questions i
get now is how does outbound fit into
all this
um and so
depending on whether you're a founder
entrepreneur or more a sales leader
watching this
you're probably looking at your numbers
and your outbound tactics and thinking
well what do i do differently
um for me the way i use outbound
is i think of it as content distribution
and i include ads in outbound because
that's the same thing right so when i
think of that but i mean
should i send somebody a cold email uh
should i send them a linkedin request
um what should go in that should it be
promoting certain content should it be
teaching them something should have a
call to action
should i be running ads those are all
forms of outbound um so the
the classic form of outbound that we see
working best nowadays
is calling cell phones if you do want to
really get your hands ready with with
outbound
and you uh need for some sort of
usually fundraising reason to build
some sort of pipeline or show of
pipeline in the next month or two
call cell phones um that's what's
working now
um but mostly the way i advocate
outbound for
what we do is to help increase brand
awareness
grow your network and your audience size
in linkedin um
and also to selectively cold email when
your market is not a good fit for
linkedin right so if you
um if your people don't hang out there
then you're gonna have to get them
somewhere else right whether that's
um posting in certain subreddits or
google groups or forums or slack
channels
or emailing them um
that that can work and we we do still
see that work um
but what we see work better is using
outbound as a way to promote content
and amplify it so seo is a way to
distribute content
it relies on google um there are other
ways that work
faster right you can install a facebook
pixel on your website and retarget
anybody who visits your website
to a facebook ad um the first thing i
say when people
ask about outbound sometimes i mention
that is oh my market doesn't use
facebook like well
if they have an account they will see
the ad if they don't they won't
what's the problem with that um
instagram is the same thing like if they
have an instagram account
oh people in it don't have instagram yes
they do i i have friends in it and they
have instagram accounts
uh they post pictures of dogs but then
they'll see your damn ad too
um if they don't have it they won't
and i i always tell people if you're
trying to think about outbound in a
vacuum
i have a really easy time outbound
because my brand is so strong
if i outbound anybody in a certain
subject of people they'll have heard of
me
and so you you may look at my the copy
that i'm sending and think oh this is
the magic copy
it's not it's because they've heard of
me right so outbound is way
easier if you have a good brand um and
yes if you want to just
skip that and for some reason you need
results you know now and you don't mind
paying out the ass for it
call cell phones that's easy
but if you want to pay less for your
leads and for your deals um
do outbound once your brand is so strong
that you're calling people who've heard
of you
or at least whose brains have been
primed to see your company name
or even your person name there's someone
that's
way easier and it's not the copy you're
sending it's partially but it's mostly
the fact that they've heard of you
they'll listen to anything you say
because they've heard of you
that's why if you're oracle or ibm you
can hire people off the street
and they can get results because uh
people know oracle ibm they'll take the
call
right and they don't if you're a startup
who nobody knows
you don't have that you have to build
that on a small level with your niche
and then outbound them that's ideal that
way you'll get better results
and unless you want to pay a lot for
your leads by just running
paid ads and outbound continuously in
which case go for it but your
your ltv to cac and your roi will be
much lower
than somebody who relies on either just
inbound or proactive inbound which
layers
outbound on top of inbound um so get
your contact foundations in order first
and your outbound conversion rates will
go way up
dude you're preaching to the choir but
this is definitely going to be useful
information for anyone
tuning in and i've never really heard it
put quite that way
in terms of outbound is is a source to
distribute content
kind of build your brand and there's not
really much point doing it unless you've
already got that branding in place so
when people hear from you they've kind
of got it in the back of their minds
whether they've seen your website
whether they've seen an advertisement or
they've just seen something digitally of
your brand
to give them that little push to i guess
the confidence to
talk to you or chat with you or book a
demo whatever it is your call to action
may be
um interesting topic interesting indeed
okay man well um yeah we've covered some
some great ground
um what i do like to ask everyone that
comes on alex
is is there one digital channel of
choice
that you recommend that any business
should be should be utilizing let's say
you're a b2b business is there one above
all the others
um it's kind of a toss up between
linkedin and google
at this point um because there are some
people who
for certain types of people and certain
types of personalities i'd say
who um don't i mean just to be real like
don't mind the attention
linkedin will work well for you um if
you love people
paying attention to you then you're
better off
running a google strategy i mean that's
a single default thing that everyone
should do some of
for example uh let's take the ceo of
fundraiser client um
the dude has a lot of good stuff to say
and he's a heart of absolute gold
but he's as one of his friends said he
has always loved the microphone
and that's what's made his linkedin
strategy so good is he relishes it
and he's good at it so i would say it's
dependent on who you are as a person
um if you don't if you the idea of
public speaking is
at least a little bit exciting to you
linkedin's your channel
if you hate that idea and google's
probably your best channel
and you said not necessarily your
highest roi channel but the channel
everyone should do
and that's i think what it is it's
depending on who you are as a person
and you have to enjoy whatever you do so
the channel you should always do is what
you what appeals to you
um and i say you the founder you the
revenue leader
if you do what you love you'll stick
with it and
just to dive into that a bit deeper do
you think that
all companies or for for example say
that
we've been talking about a um training
solutions provider as the example
should they be going straight into a
multi-channel approach from day one
let's say
there's just two people in the business
perhaps two founders should they be
diving straight into all the channels so
creating
heaps of content and working on their
seo
working on building authority for their
website perhaps posting blogs putting
all this content out on different
directory sites and so on
hammering linkedin trying to do some
some paid ads as well should they be
going gung-ho on all of them or should
they be
doing it steadily and focus on one
channel at a time what do you think
it depends on a couple things um
you want to kind of build it as a kind
of as a t right so the t
shape is you want to do a little bit of
everything if you can
and then you'll find the ways that work
best for you and you'll go deeper on
those
so you'll have a little low hanging
fruit everywhere and then the things you
go deep on that's your t-shaped growth
uh set um the next thing
that it depends on is can you afford to
think at least a little bit long term
if you can then you should do more on
the content creation side and go deep on
that for a while
um if you cannot afford to and you sort
of have to
hustle hard up front to pay bills from
leaving your job then you should hustle
for referrals and go after the lowest
hanging fruit people
you know tell them just tell them what
you tell people you know in the industry
what you're up to that's it they'll come
up with referrals for you if they can
think of them
you may want to ask them directly for
referrals but that's sort of the hustle
way to go about it at first
um and spend a lot of time doing that
if you don't if you can think even a few
months out and spend
time on this then just create tons
of good content
on your site on your social media
accounts grow them
and just put tons of energy there
and it'll it'll be a cheaper easier way
of acquiring business
in the next six to nine months for you
um
but also just go after again like the
the easiest
types of leads that you have which is
people who are close to people you know
um and so depending on
what level of honesty savings or
investment you're coming into this this
venture with um that determines how long
your your um time horizon can be
so hang on that again finance is your
financial does your financial plan
dictate that you can have that you can
do things that pay off in one month
three months or 12 months the things
that pay off in the longer term
will almost always pay off better the
shorter term payoff the lower the roi
almost always that's brilliant dude and
sound really sound advice there and
bring it back to the finance sheet we
talked about right at the start
thanks so much alex thank you for coming
on everyone you've been tuning in to
sam's business growth show
we sit down with business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe
we found out their story how digital
marketing has helped them along the way
and exclusive tips and insights to help
you skyrocket your sales
and skyrocket your business alex would
like to ask everyone that comes on if
you could thank just one person
either dead or alive having a positive
influence on yourself and your career
would that be
and why um of course my mother obviously
if mom's watching thanks mom top man
alex tell us a bit more about your
business how people can learn from you
and the best way to get in touch or
connect with yourself
it's going to be an obvious answer but
linkedin yeah
on linkedin that's how most people get
in touch nowadays is send me a connect
request
ask questions and um yeah find me there
awesome man and if you've enjoyed the
show please do subscribe
on your podcast channel of choice be it
apple podcast spotify
youtube stitcher wherever you get your
podcasts we interview tons of business
leaders each and every week
there's plenty of you for you to tune
into alex thank you once again for
coming on man i appreciate it
thanks sam are you tired of constantly
hunting for new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because
your website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts